# CS 1501 – Algorithm Implementation – Assignment #2

Yichao Qiu 
yiq23@pitt.edu

## Overview

* __Purpose__:  To implement a simple automatic word-completion system.
* __*Task 1*__: Implement algorithms for DLB insertion and word score maintenance.
* __*Task 2*__: Implement algorithms for retrieving word suggestions.


## TASK 1 - DLB Insert and Score Maintenance

In the first part of this assignment, I implement three algorithms for:

- Set the instance variable `DLBNode root`
  
- Initialize the instance variables `root = null`
  
- Call the public `add` method or the private helper  
  
- inserting a `StringBuilder` object into a DLB trie by filling in the following method, which is defined in `AutoComplete.java`. 

- In the public `add` method, catch the word == null and use the helper `add` method

- In the private helper `add` method, firstly I set a instance variable `result`. Then have three different situation:
  1. When x is null, we set the result as a new DLBNode
     Then, depending on the position of key, choose to go the child node or set the result.data as value of key's position and set the node to represent it is a word. 
  2. When the x.data equal to the value of key's position
     Then, depending on the position of key, choose to go the child node or set the result.data as value of key's position and set the node to represent it is a word.
  3. If x have data, and the data does not equal to value of key's position
     Go to the sibling.
    

- incrementing the _score_ of a word. Each DLB trie node should contain a `score` field to keep track of the number of times a word has been selected as a suggestion. The purpose of these scores is to show the words that are more commonly used first in the list of suggestions. 
  
- In the private helper `notifyWordSelected` method
    1. When the x.data equal to the value of key's position
       Then, depending on the position of key, choose to go the child node or let the score + 1, which means there have one word in the end.
    2. If x have data, and the data does not equal to value of key's position
       Go to the sibling.
       
- retrieving the _score_ of a word. You will have to implement the following method, which is also defined in `AutoComplete.java`. 

- In the private helper `getScore` method
    1. When the x.data equal to the value of key's position
       Then, depending on the position of key, choose to go the child node or get the score at the end node.
    2. If x have data, and the data does not equal to value of key's position
       Go to the sibling.

## TASK 2 - Retrieving Word Suggestions

- Define Suggestion with the `StringBuilder word` and `int score`


## Problems 

- In the `retrieveWords`, the sort suggestion arraylist is not apply well.

- In the helper method of `retrieveWords` , I cannot get the node's sibling correctly.
```java
 //retrieve a sorted list of autocomplete words for word. The list should be sorted in descending order based on score.



## Run Time


Item|Run Time
----|------
DLB Insertion (add) |	Theta(logR(nR))
Score inceremnting (notifyWordSelected)|	Theta(logR(nR))
Score retrieval (getScore)|	Theta(logR(nR))
Word suggestions retrieval|	Theta(logR(nR))

