# CS 1501 – Assignment #3 - LWZ Compression

Yichao Qiu||Assignment 3
## OVERVIEW
 
**Purpose:** The purpose of this assignment is to fully understand the LZW compression algorithm, its performance and its implementation. We will improve the performance of the textbook's LZW implementation when the input files are large.

_Goal 1_: Read the input file as a stream of bytes (i.e., byte by byte) instead of all at once (feel free to use your Lab8 code for this task). 

_Goal 2_: Avoid the Theta(n) overhead of using `String.substring()` (feel free to use your Lab8 code for this task as well). 

_Goal 3_: Allow the codebook size to increase beyond the `4096` entries in the textbook's implementation using adaptive codeword width.

_Goal 4_: Allow LZW to learn new patterns after the codebook size is reached by giving the user the option to reset the codebook. 

In onder to finish these goals, we are required to understand the knowlegde of compression techniques presented by LZW algorithm. Although in class lecturer said the code was that only a few lines needed to be added, I spent a lot of time to complete the task in the most efficient way within range of my ability.

I have two parts to achieve the purpose: compression and expansion

## PROCEDURE (Compression)

Firstly, I built a nested loop structure, which can implement reading the codewords one by on. Then, appended the characters until the prefix length was different than the length of the character, which I can use to make sure that the last characters to be appended, has not been added to the symbol table yet. In the code, I incremented the codeword process with this mindset. 


## PROCEDURE (Expansion)

Extensions are more difficult.Calculating when to add synchronization is complex.I tried many ways to implement it, and it took me a long time to find something that worked.The snag I face is that the files are easily corrupted.The damage is easily visible in the image file.Some corrupted files either won't open or look completely different from the original, with different colors and missing pixels.

## RUBRICS
File Size

File Name | Before compression| LZW file | Compression rate
---|---|---|---
Code.txt| 71KB | 24KB | 71/24
Medium.txt|	25KB | 13KB | 25/13
Large.txt |	1193KB | 491KB | 1193/491
wacky.bmp | 901KB | 4KB | 901/4

## Analysis of compression result

We can see the medium.txt has the lowest compression rate, because it does not have many duplicate content, which cannot be compressed to very small.
Wacky.bmp has the best compression rate, because in this picture there are a lot of white, which can be compressed into very small file.

